if you
can keep your head when all about you
are losing theirs and blaming it on you
if you can trust yourself when all men
doubt you but make allowance
for their doubting too
if you can wait and not be tired by
waiting
or being lied about don't
deal in lies or being hated
don't give way to hating
and yet don't look too good nor
talk too wise
if you can dream and not make dreams
your master
if you can think and not make thoughts
your aim
if you can meet with triumph and
disaster
and treat those two imposters just the
same
if you can bear to hear the truth you've
spoken
twisted by knaves to make a trap for
fools
or watch the things you gave your life
to
broken and stoop and build them up
with worn out tools
if you could make one heap of all your
winnings
and risk it on one turn of pitch and
toss
and lose and start again
at your beginnings and never breathe a
word about your loss
if you can force your heart and nerve
and sinew to serve your turn
long after they are gone and so
hold on when there is nothing in you
except the will which says to them
hold on if you can talk with crowds
and keep your virtue or walk with
kings nor lose the common touch
if neither foes nor loving friends can
hurt you if all men count
with you but none too much
if you can fill the unforgiving minute
with 60 seconds worth of distance run
yours is the earth and everything
that's in it and
which is more you'll be a man
my son
you